In the last video you learned
about locality sensitive hashing,
now it is time to put all
this knowledge to use.
You'll make an algorithm that
computes the k nearest neighbors
much faster than brute search so far.
We've seen that a few planes,
such as these three can divide
the vector space into regions.
But are these planes the best way
to divide up the vector space?
What if instead,
you divided the vector space like this?
In fact, you can't know for
sure which sets of planes is the best
way to divide up the vector space.
So why not create multiple
sets of random planes.
So that you can divide up the vector
space into multiple independent sets of
hash tables.
You can think of it like creating
multiple copies of the universe or
a multiverse, if you will.
You can make use of all these
different sets of random planes,
in order to help us find a good sets
of friendly neighborhood vectors.
I mean, a set of k nearest neighbors.
So back to our multiple sets of random
planes, over here for instance,
let's say you have a vector space.
And this magenta dot in the middle
represents the transformation of
an English word into a French word vector.
You're trying to find other French
word vectors that may be similar, so
maybe one universe of random planes.
Helped us to determine that
this magenta vector and
these green vectors are all
assigned to the same hash pockets.
Another entirely different sets of
random planes, helped us determine.
That these blue vectors are in the same
hash pockets as the red vector.
A third set of random planes,
helped us determine that these orange
vectors are in the same hash
pockets as the magenta vector.
By using multiple sets of random
planes for locality sensitive hashing.
You have a more robust way of
searching the vector space, for
a set of vectors that are possible
candidates to be nearest neighbors.
This is called approximate
nearest neighbors,
because you're not searching the entire
vector space but just a subset of it.
So it's not the absolute
k nearest neighbors but
it's approximately the k
nearest neighbors.
You sacrifice some precision in order
to gain efficiency in your search, so
let's see how to make a set
of random planes in code.
Assuming that your word vectors
have two dimensions and
you want to generate three random planes.
You'll use np.random.normal to generate
a matrix of three rows and two columns.
As you see here,
you'll create a vector v and for
each random plane, see which side
of the plane the vector is on.
So you'll find out whether
the vector v is on the positive or
negative side of each
of these three planes.
Notice that instead of using a for
loop to work on one plane at a time,
you can use np dot,
to do this in one step.
Let's call the function,
he result is that vector v is on
the positive side of each
of the three random planes.
You've already seen how to combine
these intermediate hash values,
into a single hash value.
But please do check out
the lecture notebook,
to see all the code and
to practice this last step.
As you see, locality sensitive hashing,
allows two compute k nearest neighbors,
much faster than naive search.
This powerful tool can be used for
many tasks related to r vectors and
I will show you how it can be
applied to search in the next video.